Updated the article from v9 to v10 (#4135)
umbraco/UmbracoDocs: Umbraco-Cloud/Upgrades/Migrating-from-8-to-9/index.md

# Migrate Umbraco 8 Cloud project to Umbraco 10

> This article will provide steps on how to migrate an Umbraco 8 Cloud project to Umbraco 9.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This article will provide steps on how to migrate an Umbraco 8 Cloud project to Umbraco 10.
```

> Because the underlying framework going from Umbraco 8 to 10, means that there is no direct upgrade path, however, there have been few changes to the Database schema, meaning that you can re-use the database from your Umbraco 8 project and use it on your new Umbraco 10 Cloud project, so that you have your content from Umbraco 8.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the underlying framework going from Umbraco 8 to 10 has changed there is no direct upgrade path. However, there have been few changes to the Database schema. You can re-use the database from your Umbraco 8 project and use it on your new Umbraco 10 Cloud project so that you have your content from Umbraco 8.
```

-->

## Prerequisites

> ## Prerequisites

Author: ```suggestion

```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Prerequisites
```

* An Umbraco 8 Cloud project running **the latest version of Umbraco 8**

* A clean Cloud project running the latest version of Umbraco 10 with **at least 2 environments**

> * A backup of your Umbraco 8 projects database

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A backup of your Umbraco 8 project database
```

* Import the database backup into SQL Server Management Studio

* Clone down the Development environment from the Umbraco 10 Cloud project, test the project and make sure to log in to the backoffice

> * Update the connection string in the Umbraco 10 AppSetting.Json file so that it connects to the Umbraco 8 database

Author: ```suggestion
* Update the connection string in the Umbraco 10 AppSetting.Json file so that it connects to the Umbraco 8 database:
```JSON
"ConnectionStrings": {
    "umbracoDbDSN": "Server=YourLocalSQLServerHere;Database=NameOfYourDatabaseHere;Integrated Security=true"
  }
```
```

* Import the database backup into SQL Server Management Studio

* Clone down the Development environment from the Umbraco 10 Cloud project, test the project and make sure to log in to the backoffice

* Update the connection string in the Umbraco 10 AppSetting.Json file so that it connects to the Umbraco 8 database:
```JSON
"ConnectionStrings": {
    "umbracoDbDSN": "Server=YourLocalSQLServerHere;Database=NameOfYourDatabaseHere;Integrated Security=true"

>   }

Author: ```suggestion
  }
  ```
```

>   }

Author: ```suggestion
  }
```
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a backup of the database from your Umbraco 8 project, this can be done by using the [database backup guide](https://our.umbraco.com/documentation/umbraco-cloud/Databases/Backups/) or by cloning down the V8 project and making a backup of the local Database. Make sure to restore the content from your cloud environment.
```

Author: This should already be there 🤔

* Import the database backup into SQL Server Management Studio

> * Clone down the Development environment from the Umbraco 10 Cloud project, test the project and make sure to login to the backoffice

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Clone down the Development environment from the Umbraco 10 Cloud project, test the project and make sure to log in to the backoffice
```

> * Update the connection string in the Umbraco 10 AppSetting.Json file so that it connects to the Umbraco 8 database

Reviewer: Can we add an image here for reference?

Author: I've added a code snippet that should do the trick :D

## Step 2: File migration

> * The following files/folders needs to be copied into the Umbraco 10 project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The following files/folders need to be copied into the Umbraco 10 project
```

    * `~/Views` - do **not** overwrite the default Macro and Partial View Macro files unless changes have been made to these
    * `~/Media`

>     * Any files/folders related to Stylesheets and JavaScripts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Any files/folders related to Stylesheets and JavaScript
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Umbraco 10 Config files no longer live in the Web.Config and is instead in the `appSettings.Json` file. You will need to make sure that you update the `appSettings.Json` with any custom settings that you had in your Umbraco 8 project to match with the [Configuration Files](../../../Reference/Configuration/index.md).
* In Umbraco Forms version 9.0.0+, it is only possible to store Form data in the database. If Umbraco Forms is used on the Umbraco 8 project:
```

    * Make sure to first migrate the Forms to the database using [Umbraco forms 8](../../../Add-ons/UmbracoForms/Developer/Forms-in-the-Database/index-v8)

* Run the Umbraco 10 project locally
    * It **will** give you a YSOD / error screen on the frontend as none of the Template files have been updated yet

> * Go to the backoffice of your project and navigate to the Settings section and find the deploy dashboard

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Go to the backoffice of your project and navigate to the **Settings** section and find the **Deploy** dashboard
```

> * Run `Schema Deployment From Data Files` from the deploy dashboard to make sure everything checks out with the UDA files that was generated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Run `Schema Deployment From Data Files` from the deploy dashboard to make sure everything checks out with the UDA files that were generated
```

## Step 3: Custom code for Umbraco 10

> Umbraco 10 is different from Umbraco 8 in many ways. This means that in this step, all custom code, controllers, and models need to be rewritten for Umbraco 9.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Umbraco 10 is different from Umbraco 8 in many ways. This means that in this step, all custom code, controllers, and models need to be rewritten for Umbraco 10.
```

> ## Step 4: Deploy and test on Umbraco Cloud

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 4: Deploy and Test on Umbraco Cloud
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * Run `Clear Cached Signatures` followed by `Schema Deployment From Data Files` to clear up the error
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Test **everything** in the Development environment
```
